HR LEAVE POLICY DOCUMENT

1. ANNUAL LEAVE (VACATION)

Employees are entitled to 20 days of paid leave per year. This leave can be used for vacations, personal time, or any reason chosen by the employee.

2. SICK LEAVE

Employees get 10 days of paid sick leave per year. Sick leave is for when an employee is ill or needs to see a doctor. A doctor's note may be required for absences longer than 3 days.

3. LEAVE CARRYOVER

Unused leave up to 5 days can be carried forward to the next year. Any leave exceeding 5 days will be forfeited. Carried over leave must be used within the first 3 months of the new year.

4. CASUAL LEAVE

Employees are given 3 days of casual leave per year for urgent personal matters like medical emergencies, family events, or other unforeseen situations.

5. PARENTAL LEAVE

- Maternity Leave: 4 months of paid leave for new mothers.
- Paternity Leave: 2 weeks of paid leave for new fathers.
- Adoption Leave: 2 months of paid leave for employees who adopt a child.

6. BEREAVEMENT LEAVE

Employees get 3 days of paid leave if a close family member (spouse, child, parent, sibling) passes away.

7. REMOTE WORK POLICY

Employees may work remotely up to 2 days per week. Remote work days must be approved by the manager in advance. All team meetings should be attended in person unless otherwise arranged.

8. LEAVE REQUEST PROCESS

- Employees must request leave at least 2 weeks in advance.
- Leave requests should be submitted to the manager using the company portal.
- Emergency leave can be requested with 24 hours notice.
- Managers will approve or deny requests within 24 hours.

9. LEAVE DURING COMPANY HOLIDAYS

Leave taken immediately before or after company holidays may need special approval. This prevents extended time off without valid reason.

10. UNPAID LEAVE

After all paid leave is exhausted, employees can request unpaid leave. Unpaid leave is not paid by the company but the job is held for the employee.

11. LEAVE AND PAY

During leave, employees receive their regular salary. Bonuses and incentives are calculated at the end of the financial year and are not affected by leave.

12. PUBLIC HOLIDAYS

The company observes 10 public holidays per year. These days are paid holidays and do not count towards annual leave.

For more information about the leave policy, please contact the Human Resources department at hr@company.com.
